Rewrite intro to YAML (#18629)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_docs/configuration/yaml.markdown

description: "Details about YAML to configure Home Assistant."
---

> Home Assistant can be configured in two ways:

Reviewer: This is ambiguous; it makes it seems like it is a choice.

1. Through `configuration.yaml` and other [YAML](https://yaml.org/) files.

> 2. Through the web user interface (UI), which stores the configuration in JSON files in the `.storage` folder.

Reviewer: Removing a bit, as it is not relevant to the end-user or for this page.

```suggestion
2. Through the web user interface (UI).
```

> Traditionally, all configuration was managed in YAML files, but as explained in the 2020 blog post ["The future of YAML"](https://www.home-assistant.io/blog/2020/04/14/the-future-of-yaml/), there's been a shift towards allowing more and more configuration to be done in the UI. For many integrations, you can still choose to use YAML if you like, but some things can only be configured in the web UI and some things only in YAML. Refer to the documentation for the specific integration for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traditionally, all configuration was managed in YAML files, but as explained in the 2020 blog post ["The future of YAML"](/blog/2020/04/14/the-future-of-yaml/), there's been a shift towards allowing more and more configuration to be done in the UI. For many integrations, you can still choose to use YAML if you like, but some things can only be configured in the web UI and some things only in YAML. Refer to the documentation for the specific integration for details.
```

- Relative links.
- "For many integrations, you can still choose to use YAML if you like" -> This is not true, we don't allow for those. More information can be found in ADR-0010 and in the blog post, you have linked.

> Here's a quick example showing how you could use YAML to set up the [Notify integration](/integrations/notify) to use the [Text-to-Speech (TTS) platform](/integrations/tts), and also configure the TTS platform to use the [Google Translate platform](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/google_translate/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example showing how you could use YAML to set up the [Notify integration](/integrations/notify) to use the [Text-to-Speech (TTS) platform](/integrations/tts), and also configure the TTS platform to use the [Google Translate platform](/integrations/google_translate/):
```

```yaml
tts:
  - platform: google_translate
    service_name: google_say

notify:
  - platform: tts
    name: in_the_living_room
    tts_service: tts.google_say
    media_player: media_player.living_room

> ```

Reviewer: I'm not sure why we need two examples here? Especially consider the latter isn't needed for users in general.

- An **integration** provides the core logic for some functionality (like `notify` provides the logic for sending notifications, and `tts` provides the core logic for text-to-speech).

> - A **platform** is a specific form of integration which connects to a software or hardware platform. A platform can be abstract, like the `tts` platform which connects to *some* text-to-speech service, or specific, like the `google_translate` platform which connects to the Google Translate web service.

Reviewer: I think it is confusing for an end-user how `tts` is an integration in the line above and now its a platform.
